
The proposed architecture is suitable for most common use cases. Images transformation are executed centrally in an AWS region, only when the image hasn’t been already transformed and stored. The available transformations include resizing and formatting, but can be extended to more operations if needed. Both transformations can be requested by the Front-end, with the possibility of automatic format selection done on edge side. The architecture is based on S3 for storage, CloudFront for content delivery, and Lambda for image processing. The request flow:

1. The user sends a HTTP request for an image specific transformations, such as encoding and size. The transformations are encoded in the URL, more precisely as comma-separated list of directives as a prefix to the original path.  An example URL would look like this: https://exmaples.com/format=webp,width=200/images/cats/mycat.jpg. 
2. The request is processed by a nearby CloudFront Edge location providing the best performance. Before passing the request upstream, a CloudFront Function is executed on viewer request event to rewrite the request URL. CloudFront Functions is a feature of CloudFront that allows you to write lightweight functions in JavaScript for high-scale, latency-sensitive CDN customizations can write lightweight functions in JavaScript for high-scale, latency-sensitive CDN customizations. In our architecture, we rewrite the URL to:
    1. Normalize the URL by reducing the cardinality of transformations to increase the cache hit ratio.
    2. When an automatic transformation is requested, decide about the best one to apply. For example, if the user asks for the most optimized image format (JPEG, WebP, or AVIF) using the directive format=auto, CloudFront Function will select the best format based on the Accept header present in the request.
3. If the requested image is already cached in CloudFront then there will be a cache hit and the image is returned from CloudFront cache. To increase the cache hit ratio, we enable Origin shield (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/origin-shield.html), a feature of CloudFront that reduces even more the number of requests to the origin. If the Image is not in CloudFront cache, then the request will be forwarded to S3 . If the requested image is already transformed and stored in S3, then it is simply served and cached in CloudFront.
4. Otherwise, S3 will respond with a 403 error code, which is detected by CloudFront’s Origin Failover (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/high_availability_origin_failover.html). Thanks to this native feature, CloudFront retries the same URL but this time using the secondary origin based on Lambda URL. When invoked, the Lambda function downloads the original image from S3, transforms it using Sharp library (https://sharp.pixelplumbing.com/), stores the transformed image in S3, then serve it through CloudFront where it will cached for future requests. Note the following:
    1. The transformed image is added to S3 with a lifecycle policy that deletes it after a certain duration to reduce the storage cost. Ideally, you’d set this value according to the duration after which your images stop being popular.
    2. For additional access control, CloudFront is configured to send a secret key in a Custom origin header (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/add-origin-custom-headers.html), which is validated in the Lambda code before processing the image.


